.Dd 11/25/19          \" DATE
.Dt hsh(1)     \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Linux
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm hsh
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd A simple UNIX command interperator (A Shell)
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
: ./hsh
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is a command line interperator. It reads commands from the user input of the terminal,
and runs them into the kernel.                      \" Ends the list
.Pp

.Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
The enviorment is a set of key = value pairs that the system uses for various functions and system calls.
These variables store information about the current enviroment, or current session. 

A couple example are:
.Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.It PATH
Tells the program where to search for executable files.
.It HOME
Stores the current user's home directory so it can be used later.
.El
.Pp
Systems by default can have near a dozen enviorment variables, and users can create their own
depending on  if a command to do so is available. The enviroment is essential to the essential functions of a shell

.Sh SIGNALS                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
Will take an QUIT  to end the program, or just by typing exit. Sending SIGINT will fail to end the
program since it is ignored.

.Sh EXECUTION
During execution, the shell functions in the following way. First it will grab the user input, and once it has the 
user input it will be stored in a vecotorized array for later use. Next, the program will filter out a built in command
versus a command that is stored on the file system. If it finds a built it it is immedietly executed, 
if it doesn't find a built in, it looks to see if it is a command.
.Pp

Before looking for a command, the program checks if the user input contains a "/". If it does find
that character it attempts to run it as a path. If it doesn't work, the program returns an error.
If the user input does not contain the path, the programs looks in the enviroment variable $PATH. 
The program doesn't know where to find this varaible, so all the enviroment variables on the system
are fed into the program so it can search through them to find what it needs. This is necessary for
commands to both execute without a full path, and to allow certain commands to actually function.
.Pp

To execute commands without a full path the programs searches for the $PATH varaible, which is a string 
of directories that the system uses to search for executable files, which is what external system commands are.
Once the system finds the path, it takes the filtered user input, and adds a slash, and the first part of the user
input onto the path.

.Pp

Example(ls): /bin ----> /bin/ls
.Pp

Afterwards, a system call is used to check whether the user calling the command has access to that file, and if the file
actually exists, and is executable. If it finds that the file is executable, the program signals that the file is there, and
calls a function in the exec tree of commands in order to run the found file.
.Pp

.Sh SYSTEM CALLS

.Bl -tag -width
.It execve
 Takes in the user input, a path, and the current enviroment and attempts to run the file path given
.It access
 Takes in a path and a permissions mode and accesses that file based on the mode
.It read
 Reads a line from a file descriptor until it reaches the EOF
.It fork
 Creates a child process from the parent process
.It wait
 Tells a parents process to wait for a child to end
.It waitpid
 Waits for a specific pid given to the call to end

.Sh BUILT-INS
.Bl -tag -width
.It ENV
Prints out all the enviorment variables being used by the program.
.It EXIT
Program to quit the shell by sending the exit command
.It UNSETENV
Unsets an enviorment variables specificed by the user
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
After Running hsh
.Bl -tag - width
.It pwd 
(Output current working directory: /home/shell)
.It ls
(Output: The file contents of the current directory)
.It echo
(Output whatever is after echo: "echo "qwerty" --> qwerty)
.Sh SEE ALSO
The actual shell, because it works better then this one, and has no bugs.
.Sh BUGS
Sometimes the PATH doesn't always work with every command, most of the time it is successful, but there are occassions where the path will fail.
Sometimes memory isn't freed from the program, so a leak will occur. Setenv isn't a function that works, though the call is implemented, and cd only works occassionally.
.Sh AUTHORS
Geoffory Zoref  <geoffory.zoref@holbertonschool.com>
.Pp
Ezra Nobrega <ezra.nobrega@holbertonschool.com>
